Configuration Package
=====================

A configuration package contains one or more configurations for the CANopen
stack. The configuration package needs to hold the EDS/DCF files for each device,
the bus configuration and the launch files for the different configurations.

Consequently, the structure of the configuration package should look as follows:

    ::

          {package_name}
          ├── config
          │   ├── {bus_config_name_1}
          │   |   ├── bus.yml
          │   |   ├── {device1}.eds
          │   |   ├── {device...}.eds
          │   |   └── {slave_n}.eds
          │   └── {bus_config_name_2}
          │       ├── bus.yml
          │       ├── {device1}.eds
          │       ├── {device...}.eds
          │       └── {slave_n}.eds
          ├── launch
          │   ├── {bus_config_name_1}.launch.py
          |   └── {bus_config_name_1}.launch.py
          ├── CMakeLists.txt
          └── package.xml



Bus Configuration File
============================

The ros2_canopen stack relies on a YAML configuration file that is used
for configuring the bus topology and specifying configurations for
each device. The file details which devices connected to the bus, which
EDS/DCF file applies to them, which parameters of the EDS/DCF files should be
overwritten and which drivers should be used to control the devices.

Structure
---------

The YAML configuration file has the following sections:

.. code-block:: yaml

  options: # General options especially dcf_path
    [configuration item]: [value]

  master: # The configuration of the master
    [configuration item]: [value]
    [...]

  defaults: # Defaults that apply to all slave nodes
    [configuration item]: [value]
    []

  nodes: # Configurations for all slave nodes
    - [device_name]:
        [configuration item]: [value]
        [...]


Options Section
---------------
The options section holds general options. Right now these are only the following.

.. csv-table:: Options Configuration
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: longtable
  :delim: ;
  :widths: 1 1

  configuration item; description
  dcf_path;	The directory in which the generated .bin file will be available at runtime. You can set this to "@BUS_CONFIG_PATH@" and it will be auto-generated by cmake.


Master Section
--------------
The master section has a number of configuration options. These are not unique to ros2_canopen
but come from the lely core library. Below you find a list of possible configuration items.

.. csv-table:: Master Configuration
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: longtable
  :delim: ;
  :widths: 1 1

  configuration item; description
  node_id; The node-ID (default: 255)
  driver; The fully qualified class name of the master to use.
  package; The ros2 package name in which the master class can be found.
  baudrate; The baudrate in kbit/s (default: 1000)
  vendor_id;The vendor-ID (default: 0x00000000)
  product_code;The product code (default: 0x00000000)
  revision_number;	 The revision number (default: 0x00000000).
  serial_number; 	The serial number (default: 0x00000000).
  heartbeat_multiplier;	The multiplication factor used to obtain the slave heartbeat consumer time from the master heartbeat producer time (default: see options section).
  heartbeat_consumer;	Specifies whether the master should monitor the heartbeats of the slaves (default: true).
  heartbeat_producer;	The heartbeat producer time in ms (default: 0).
  emcy_inhibit_time;	The EMCY inhibit time in multiples of 100 μs (default: 0, see object 1015).
  sync_period;	The SYNC interval in μs (default: 0).
  sync_window;	The SYNC window length in μs (default: 0, see object 1007).
  sync_overflow;	The SYNC counter overflow value (default: 0, see object 1019).
  error_behavior;	A dictionary of error behaviors for different classes or errors (default: {1: 0x00}, see object 1029).
  nmt_inhibit_time;	The NMT inhibit time in multiples of 100 μs (default: 0, see object 102A).
  start;	Specifies whether the master shall switch into the NMT operational state by itself (default: true, see bit 2 in object 1F80).
  start_nodes;	Specifies whether the master shall start the slaves (default: true, see bit 3 in object 1F80).
  start_all_nodes;	Specifies whether the master shall start all nodes simultaneously (default: false, see bit 1 in object 1F80).
  reset_all_nodes;	Specifies whether all slaves shall be reset in case of an error event on a mandatory slave (default: false, see bit 4 in object 1F80).
  stop_all_nodes;	Specifies whether all slaves shall be stopped in case of an error event on a mandatory slave (default: false, see bit 6 in object 1F80).
  boot_time;	The timeout for booting mandatory slaves in ms (default: 0, see object 1F89).
  boot_timeout;	The timeout for booting all slaves in ms (default: 2000ms).

Device Section
--------------
The device configuration enables configuring the characteristics of the connected CANopen
device.

.. note::
  It is important to note, that you choose the operation (simple nodes or managed nodes) by choosing
  either only lifecycle drivers or only simple drivers.

  **Mixing them will not work!**

.. csv-table:: Device Configuration
  :header-rows: 1
  :class: longtable
  :delim: ;
  :widths: 1 1

  configuration item; description
  driver; The fully qualified class name of the driver to use.
  package; The ros2 package name in which the driver class can be found.
  enable_lazy_load; A flag that states whether the driver is loaded on start-up.
  dcf;	The filename of the EDS/DCF describing the slave (mandatory).
  dcf_path;	The directory in which the generated .bin file will be available at runtime (default: see options section).
  node_id;	The node-ID (default: 255, can be omitted if specified in the DCF).
  revision_number;	The revision number (default: 0x00000000, can be omitted if specified in the DCF).
  serial_number;	The serial number (default: 0x00000000, can be omitted if specified in the DCF).
  heartbeat_multiplier;	The multiplication factor used to obtain master heartbeat consumer time from the slave heartbeat producer time (default: see options section).
  heartbeat_consumer;	Specifies whether the slave should monitor the heartbeat of the master (default: false).
  heartbeat_producer;	The heartbeat producer time in ms (default: 0).
  error_behavior;	A dictionary of error behaviors for different classes or errors (default: {}, see object 1029).
  rpdo;	The Receive-PDO configuration (see below).
  tpdo;	The Transmit-PDO configuration (see below).
  boot;	Specifies whether the slave will be configured and booted by the master (default: true, see bit 2 in object 1F81).
  mandatory;	Specifies whether the slave is mandatory (default: false, see bit 3 in object 1F81).
  reset_communication;	Specifies whether the NMT reset communication command may be sent to the slave (default: true, see bit 4 in object 1F81).
  software_file;	The name of the file containing the firmware (default: "", see object 1F58).
  software_version;	The expected software version (default: 0x00000000, see object 1F55).
  configuration_file;	The name of the file containing the configuration (default: "<dcf_path>/<name>.bin" (where <name> is the section name), see object 1F22).
  restore_configuration;	The sub-index of object 1011 to be used when restoring the configuration (default: 0x00).
  sdo_timeout_ms; The timeout to use for SDO reads/writes to this device. (default: 20ms)
  sdo;	Additional SDO requests to be sent during configuration (see below).


Further references
------------------
The dcfgen documentation gives more details on the usage of the dcfgen tool for generating DCF: https://opensource.lely.com/canopen/docs/dcf-tools/

Variables
---------

``@BUS_CONFIG_PATH@:`` Automatic config path definition if configuration package structure is followed.




Configuration Package CMake
===========================

In order to build the configuration package and generate the necessary runtime artifacts from the
bus configuration file and eds/dcf files, the lely_core_libraries package contains an extra
CMAKE macro.

**cogen_dcf(target)**

Target: the name of the configuration (e.g. for config/{bus_config_name_1} is bus_config_name_1)

.. code-block::

  cogen_dcf(bus_config)
